Carter Burkett
Professor Nelson Lim
ANGM 3368.001
April 10, 2024
Project 03A: Planning Document

Dev Tool: Rail shooter camera movement and game object navigation system
Function: 
Moves Game objects (and consequently a camera) along a set of user defined waypoints. Variables such as travel speed, acceleration, basic user input/manipulation, and (hopefully) path arc will be accommodated in the editor with a custom menu.
This tool will aid in making Starfox 64 style levels by providing developers with the ability to swiftly place down and manipulate way points

Core Elements:
Ability to add, place, and view waypoints in the Unity Editor and scene window
Ability to Control sharpness of path with a modifying factor defined in the editor
Ability to Control the min/max speed of the game object as it moves along the rail
Functional with Player controller element built for the level.
The system will be able to work around Maps and objects.

Implementation Steps and organization:
0)	Create Editor GUI script(s) along the way, preferably using GUI Drawer
	a.	If possible, I’d like to make the path at least roughly visible in the editor using gizmos.
1)	Create basic player controller for the rail system
	a.	camera movement w/ mouse, acceleration control, lateral and vertical movement manipulation within developer defined range (player can’t just leave the rail), other movement mechanics that may end up being necessary.
2)	Create system/script that holds waypoint locations.
	a.	Will accept and store transform data of game objects
	b.	May spawn a new game object on top of previously placed object to streamline process for developer
3)	Create Basic Rail movement system.
	a.	Will likely use a hierarchy of game objects[spawn w/ separate script?]
		i.	Parent object that lerps and rotates based off of the rail system
		ii.	Child objects for player object and camera
		iii.	(this is probably? An oversimplification but also the realistic starting point)
4)	Fine tune Rail Movement [some combination of the following]
	a.	Bezier, sine, cos, curves to soften travel b/w way points
		i.	If possible, I want to avoid the player object moving at harsh angles (unless the developer specifically wants that).
	b.	Camera dampening/camera focus option (ability to strip player controls at certain way points to focus player camera on event or target)
		i.	This is not to say I’m going to create a system for focusing on another camera target as well, just creating the ability to lock player controls.
	c.	Other QoL additions as needed/possible
